# Study Notes

### Learning Plan

April 30 - May 30, 31 days

__Part 1 Foundations__

Ch2 Consensus Expected Returns: The CAMP   11- 40  3.5h

Ch3 Risk  41 - 85  3h

Ch4 Exceptional Return, Benchmarks, and Value Added  87 - 108 2.5h

Ch5 Residual Risk and Return: The Information Ratio 109 - 145  2h

Ch6 The Fundamental Law of Active Management 147 - 169 1.5h

__Part 2 Expected Returns and Valuation__

Ch7 Expected Returns and the Arbitrage Pricing Theory 173 - 198 1.5h

Ch8 Valuation in Theory 199 - 224  1h

Ch9 Valuation in Practice 225 - 257

__Part 3 Information Processing__

Ch10 Forecasting Basics  261 - 293  1.5h

Ch11 Advanced Forecasting 295 - 314  1.5h

Ch12 Information Analysis 315 - 345  1.5h

Ch13 The Information Horizon 347 - 374  Mon  3h

__Part 4 Implementation__

Ch14 Portfolio Construction 377 - 418 0519  Tue  3h

Ch15 Long/Short Investing 419 - 443 0520 Sun 1h

Ch16 Transaction Costs, Turnover, and Trading 445 - 475 0521 Sun 1h

Ch17 Performance Analysis 477 - 515 0522 Mon  2h

Ch18 Asset Allocation 517 - 539 0523 Tue  40min

Ch19 Benchmark Timing  541 - 558  0524 Tue  30min

Ch20 The Historical Record for Active Management 559 - 571 0525 Tue  30min  

Ch21 Open Questions 573 - 576 Tue

Ch22 Summary 577 - 580 Tue

__Appendix C: Return and Statistics Basics__

## 20.1 Introduction

1. successful active management has two key elements:
   1. finding superior information
      1. better than consensus, high information ratio, positive information coefficient, and high breadth.
   2. efficiently building portfolios based on that information

## 20.2 Studies of performance

1. Three questions
   1. Has the average active manager outperformed ?
   2.  are the top performers skillful or lucky ?
   3.  and does performance persist?

## Why Believe in successful active management?

1. we know that markets aren’t perfectly efficient, because market participants are human. Humans are not perfectly rational.
   1. Behavioral finance has claimed that markets are not efficient because of human behavior.
2. perhaps paradoxically, only active management can make markets efficient.
3. not surprisingly, successful active management will require cleverness and hard work: to uncover information superior to that of other managers, and to
   implement more efficiently than other managers.

# Ch21 Open Questions

1. The search for the next source of superior information is an inherent open question all the time for every active manager, but it isn’t an open question for active management.

## 21.1 Dynamics

Active portfolio management is a dynamic problem. We manage portfolios over time. We confront a flow of information (and noise). Risk changes as volatilities change and as our exposures change over time. (Benchmark timing is just the most obvious example.) Transactions costs change over time and with our speed of trading.

## 21.2 Transaction Costs

A complete and practical model of transactions costs would cover three important aspects: tightness, depth, and resiliency. Tightness measures the bid/ask spread. Depth measures market impact. Resiliency measures how depth or market impact
evolves over time.

## 21.3 Liabilities, asset allocation and risk over time

## 21.4 NonLinearities

Do nonlinear models offer any predictive power for understanding financial market behavior?

## 21.5 After-tax investing

## 21.6 Behavior Finance

The open question for behavioral finance is whether it has predictive ability. Can first principles of psychology lead to new investment strategies?

# Ch 22 Summary

## 22.2 Themes

1. active management is a process

2. active management is forecasting, and a key to active manager performance is superior information
3. active managers should forecast as often as possible
   1.  the information ratio depends on both skill and breadth, the number of independent forecasts or bets per year
4.  mathematics cannot overcome ignorance.
   1. if the raw information is valueless, no mathematical transformation will help.

## 22.3 What’s left

Seeking superior information in this zero-sum game is lonely. Jack Treynor once described the process this way: If he identifies a stock he thinks will go up, he talks to his wife about it. If she is enthusiastic, he asks his barber. From there, he discusses the idea with his accountant and his lawyer. If they all agree it’s a great idea—he doesn’t buy the stock. If everyone agrees with him, the price must already reflect his insight.

